[ray.llm] Added docs (pydantic template) (#50675)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/llm/overview.rst

Overview
========

Ray Serve LLM APIs allow users to deploy multiple LLM models together with a familiar Ray Serve API, while providing compatibility with the OpenAI API.

Features
--------
- ⚡️ Automatic scaling and load balancing
- 🌐 Unified multi-node multi-model deployment
- 🔌 OpenAI compatible
- 🔄 Multi-LoRA support with shared base models
- 🚀 Engine agnostic architecture (i.e. vLLM, SGLang, etc)

Key Components
--------------

The ``ray.serve.llm`` module provides two key deployment types for serving LLMs:

> VLLMDeploymentImpl

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be VLLMDeployment, instead of the impl?

To deploy using either configuration file:

.. code-block:: bash

    serve run config.yaml

Advanced Usage Patterns
-----------------------

Multi-LoRA Deployment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation) to efficiently fine-tune models by configuring the ``LoraConfig``:

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Server
        :sync: server

        .. code-block:: python

            from ray import serve
            from ray.serve.config import AutoscalingConfig
            from ray.serve.llm.configs import LLMConfig, ModelLoadingConfig, LoraConfig, DeploymentConfig
            from ray.serve.llm.builders import build_openai_app

            # Configure the model with LoRA
            llm_config = LLMConfig(
                model_loading_config=ModelLoadingConfig(
                    served_model_name="llama-3.1-8b",
                    model_source="meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8b-instruct",
                ),
                lora_config=LoraConfig(
                    # Let's pretend this is where LoRA weights are stored on S3.
                    # For example
                    # s3://ray-serve-llm-lora/llama-3.1-8b-instruct-lora/llama-3.1-8b:abc/

>                     # and s3://ray-serve-llm-lora/llama-3.1-8b-instruct-lora/llama-3.1-8b:def/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    # and s3://ray-serve-llm-lora/llama-3.1-8b-instruct-lora:def/
```

>                     # are two of the LoRA checkpoints (i.e. in form of <base_model>:<lora_id>)

Reviewer 2: maybe
```suggestion
                    # are two of the LoRA checkpoints (i.e. in form of <dynamic_lora_loading_path>:<lora_id>)
```

            from ray import serve
            from ray.serve.llm.configs import LLMConfig
            from ray.serve.llm.builders import build_openai_app

            # Configure the model with LoRA
            llm_config = LLMConfig(
                model_loading_config=dict(
                    model_id="qwen-0.5b",
                    model_source="Qwen/Qwen2.5-0.5B-Instruct",
                ),
                lora_config=dict(
                    # Let's pretend this is where LoRA weights are stored on S3.
                    # For example
                    # s3://my_dynamic_lora_path/lora_model_1_ckpt
                    # s3://my_dynamic_lora_path/lora_model_2_ckpt
                    # are two of the LoRA checkpoints
                    dynamic_lora_loading_path="s3://my_dynamic_lora_path",
                    max_num_adapters_per_replica=16,
                ),
                deployment_config=dict(
                    autoscaling_config=dict(
                        min_replicas=1,
                        max_replicas=2,
                    )
                ),
                accelerator_type="A10G",
            )

            # Build and deploy the model

>             app = build_openai_app({"llm_configs": [llm_config]})

Reviewer 2: We can also use `LLMServingArgs` for the args passing into `build_openai_app`, but either way works.

Author: The less data structure apis we surface up as public the better.
